Added more examples of misconceptions and MCQs (#290)
carpentries/lesson-development-training: episodes/formative-assessment.md

The longer a prior incorrect model is in use, and the more extensively it has to be "unlearned", 
the more it can actively interfere with the incorporation of the new correct knowledge 
(since it will contradict the misconceptions already present in the mental model).
          

> ### Example Misconceptions
> An example misconception from everyday life ([borrowed from The Carpentries Instructor Training](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/instructor/02-practice-learning.html#misconceptions)) is, knowing that a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example Misconceptions

#### Everyday life example

An example misconception from everyday life ([borrowed from The Carpentries Instructor Training](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/instructor/02-practice-learning.html#misconceptions)) is, knowing that a 
```

bigger object (more volume) pushes out more water out of a basin than a smaller object (less volume), 
assuming that the similar principle will apply for objects of different weights. Surprisingly, 
heavier objects of the same volume as lighter ones will not push out more water!
![A misconception on how objects' mass affects the amount of water it can 'push out'](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/fig/ballwater3a.svg){alt='A concept map similar to the previous one except with "Heavy Ball" and "Light Ball" in the middle, and a red "X" over the arrows labeled "Pushes out MORE" and "Pushes out LESS"'}

> 
> Another misconception, sometimes encountered by people who are learning programming languages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Coding Example

Another misconception, sometimes encountered by people who are learning programming languages
```

such as R and Python having used spreadsheets, is that variables in programs calculated by 
referencing other variables in formulas will retain the connection and be updated automatically 
when the referenced variables change. While variables in R or Python programs can use values 

> referenced by other variables, they do not behave like cells in spreadsheets!

Author: OK, I'll try to reword a bit better.

> referenced by other variables, they do not behave like cells in spreadsheets!

Author: Fixed via 477c111

> 
> Misconceptions often arise around topics of copyright and licencing of work/content (e.g. data, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Copyright / Licencing Example

Misconceptions often arise around topics of copyright and licencing of work/content (e.g. data, 
```

> software, lesson material). Copyright allows a creator to state that they own the work they have created. This declaration is optional - even if the creator does not explicitly assert it, copyright of the work exists from the moment of creation. A licence is a legal document which sets down the terms under which the creator is releasing what they have created for others to use, modify, extend or exploit.

Author: ```suggestion
software, written material). Copyright allows a creator to state that they own the work they have created. This declaration is optional - even if the creator does not explicitly assert it, copyright of the work exists from the moment of creation. A licence is a legal document which sets down the terms under which the creator is releasing what they have created for others to use, modify, extend or exploit.
```

> If this information is not provided, some will not reuse the work at all while others will assume they are free to do whatever they want with the work (as there is nothing to say that they cannot). This former is the correct assumption, however, even if this was not the intention of the copyright owner.

Author: ```suggestion
If this information is not provided, some will not reuse the work at all while others will assume they are free to do whatever they want with the work (as there is nothing to say that they cannot). This former is the correct assumption, even if this was not the intention of the copyright owner.
```

bigger object (more volume) pushes out more water out of a basin than a smaller object (less volume), 
assuming that the similar principle will apply for objects of different weights. Surprisingly, 
heavier objects of the same volume as lighter ones will not push out more water!
![A misconception on how objects' mass affects the amount of water it can 'push out'](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/fig/ballwater3a.svg){alt='A concept map similar to the previous one except with "Heavy Ball" and "Light Ball" in the middle, and a red "X" over the arrows labeled "Pushes out MORE" and "Pushes out LESS"'}

Another misconception, sometimes encountered by people who are learning programming languages
such as R and Python having used spreadsheets, is that variables in programs calculated by 
referencing other variables in formulas will retain the connection and be updated automatically 
when the referenced variables change. While variables in R or Python programs can use values 
referenced by other variables, they do not behave like cells in spreadsheets!

> Misconceptions often arise around topics of copyright and licencing of work/content (e.g. data, 
> software, lesson material). Copyright allows a creator to state that they own the work they have created. This declaration is optional - even if the creator does not explicitly assert it, copyright of the work exists from the moment of creation. A licence is a legal document which sets down the terms under which the creator is releasing what they have created for others to use, modify, extend or exploit.
> If this information is not provided, some will not use the work at all (even if this was not the intention 
> of the copyright owner), while others will assume they are free to do whatever they want with the work (as there 
> is nothing to say that they cannot).

Author: ```suggestion
Misconceptions often arise around topics of copyright and licencing of work/content (e.g. data, 
software, lesson material). Copyright allows a creator to state that they own the work they have created. This declaration is optional - even if the creator does not explicitly assert it, copyright of the work exists from the moment of creation. A licence is a legal document which sets down the terms under which the creator is releasing what they have created for others to use, modify, extend or exploit.
If this information is not provided, some will not reuse the work at all while others will assume they are free to do whatever they want with the work (as there is nothing to say that they cannot). This former is the correct assumption, however, even if this was not the intention of the copyright owner.
```

bigger object (more volume) pushes out more water out of a basin than a smaller object (less volume), 
assuming that the similar principle will apply for objects of different weights. Surprisingly, 
heavier objects of the same volume as lighter ones will not push out more water!
![A misconception on how objects' mass affects the amount of water it can 'push out'](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/fig/ballwater3a.svg){alt='A concept map similar to the previous one except with "Heavy Ball" and "Light Ball" in the middle, and a red "X" over the arrows labeled "Pushes out MORE" and "Pushes out LESS"'}

Another misconception, sometimes encountered by people who are learning programming languages
such as R and Python having used spreadsheets, is that variables in programs calculated by 
referencing other variables in formulas will retain the connection and be updated automatically 
when the referenced variables change. While variables in R or Python programs can use values 
referenced by other variables, they do not behave like cells in spreadsheets!

> Misconceptions often arise around topics of copyright and licencing of work/content (e.g. data, 
> software, lesson material). Copyright allows you to state that you own what you have created - 
> it is a declaration on who owns the intellectual property of the work. In theory, 
> copyright exists implicitly without the creator having to do anything to assert it, from the moment of creation. 
> A licence is a legal document which sets down the 
> terms under which you are releasing what you have created for others to use, modify, extend or exploit.
> If this information is not provided, some will not use the work at all (even if this was not the intention 
> of the copyright owner), while others will assume they are free to do whatever they want with the work (as there 
> is nothing to say that they cannot).

Author: ```suggestion
Misconceptions often arise around topics of copyright and licencing of work/content (e.g. data, 
software, lesson material). Copyright allows a creator to state that they own the work they have created. This declaration is optional - even if the creator does not explicitly assert it, copyright of the work exists from the moment of creation. A licence is a legal document which sets down the terms under which the creator is releasing what they have created for others to use, modify, extend or exploit.
If this information is not provided, some will not use the work at all (even if this was not the intention 
of the copyright owner), while others will assume they are free to do whatever they want with the work (as there 
is nothing to say that they cannot).
```

_MCQ: What is 27 + 15?_

a) 42
b) 32
c) 312
d) 33

The correct answer is 42, but each of the other answers provides a valuable insight:

b) they do not understand the concept of a carry and are throwing it away completely
c) they understand the concept of a carry and know that they cannot just discard the carried ‘1’, but do not understand that it is actually a ten and needs to be added into the next column - they are treating each column of numbers as unconnected to its neighbours.
d) they understand that they need to carry ‘1’ but are adding it to the wrong column.

Their diagnostic power means that each of the wrong choices helps an instructor figure out precisely what misconceptions learners had adopted and in which ways their mental models are broken. As a result the instructor may decide to review a particular concept or change the pace of instruction. At the same time, learners get feedback about what they have misunderstood and what they need to focus their study efforts on - we call this **guided practice**.

> ### Choosing Plausible Distractors in MCQs

Author: ```suggestion
### Choosing Plausible Distractors
```

> ### Choosing Plausible Distractors in MCQs

Author: Fixed via 9429323

but not represented in the MCQ options.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                    
### Example MCQs

Thinking back of the misconceptions of how values are assigned, referenced and updated in programming languages, 
here is an example MCQ that can probe learners for such misconceptions. 

_MCQ: Look at the following 3 assignment statements in Python._

```python
    n = 300
    m = n
    n = -100
```

_What is the result at the end of the above assignments?_

```python
    a. n = 300 and m = 300
    b. n = -100 and m = 300
    c. n = -100 and m = -100
    d. n = 300 and m = -100
```

The correct answer is b., while each of the plausible distractors identify a different misconception:

a) they understand the value held by `n` is now also held by `m` but do not understand the value of 
`n` has been updated since the initial assignment (e.g. treating it as a constant).
c) they do not understand `n` and `m` are separate variables/containers for values (which can hold the same values) 
but rather assume that `m` is referencing variable `n` instead of copying its value at the time of assignment (e.g. behaving as a reference to another cell in a spreadsheet).

> d) looks like a mix of misconceptions a. and c.

Reviewer: Maybe a better 3rd diagnostic answer (for d) would be something like n = 200, m=300 - this could be if they think that the reassignment for n actually subtracts 100 from the original value as their misconception.

Author: That's a good one - will add.

Author: Fixed via [d6c2c30](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-development-training/commit/d6c2c30117e227af182c4b4b51e7e41775c2dbca)

but rather assume that `m` is referencing variable `n` instead of copying its value at the time of assignment 
(e.g. behaving as a reference to another cell in a spreadsheet).
d\) they think that the reassignment for `n` actually subtracts `100` from the original value.

#### Copyright / Licencing MCQ

An example MCQ to check on people's misconceptions around licencing and reusing other people's work
could be designed as follows.

_MCQ: Which of the following statements are true and which are false?_
   
a) I don’t need permission because I am only using the copyrighted work in educational or non-profit purposes  
b) I should always know the licence of any code, data, libraries, pictures or other work that you reuse or redistribute  
c) Since I’m planning to give credit to the authors who created the work I reuse, I do not have to worry about or need permission  
d) Material I obtain from the Internet is publicly accessible so no explicit permission is required  
e) The work I want to use does not have a copyright notice on it, so it’s not protected by copyright and I’m free to use it

The correct answers are as follows:

> a) False - you always need an explicit permission from the creator to use their work.  
> b) True - you should make sure that you have the permission for all the work that you are reusing, modifying or sharing.  
> c) False - if you give credit to a work’s owner, that only means you are not plagiarising other 
> people's work and claiming it as your own, however that does not mean that you have the permission to use it.  
> d) False - publicly accessible work is not the same the work in the public domain. The owner 
> explicitly must put their work in the public domain but attaching the appropriate licence to it, before you can freely reuse it. 
> e) False - generally you should have a permission to use the portions of work, however small, but this is less clear in case of written material (e.g. borrowing 3 lines out of 1000s).
> f) False - the use of copyright notice is optional as copyright exists implicitly from the moment the work is created.
> g) False - absence of a licence on how the work can be used generally means you have no permission from the creator to reuse it.

Author: ```suggestion
a) False - you always need an explicit permission from the creator to use their work.  
b) True - you should make sure that you have the permission for all the work that you are reusing, modifying or sharing.  
c) False - if you give credit to a work’s owner, that only means you are not plagiarising other 
people's work and claiming it as your own, however that does not mean that you have the permission to use it.  
d) False - publicly accessible work is not the same the work in the public domain. The owner 
explicitly must put their work in the public domain but attaching the appropriate licence to it, before you can freely reuse it. 
e) False - the use of copyright notice is optional as copyright exists implicitly from the moment the work is created.
```

here is an example MCQ that can probe learners for such misconceptions. 

_MCQ: Look at the following 3 assignment statements in Python._

```python
n = 300
m = n
n = -100
```

_What is the result at the end of the above assignments?_

a) n = 300 and m = 300
b) n = -100 and m = 300
c) n = -100 and m = -100
d) n = 200 and m = -100

The correct answer is b., while plausible distractors identify different misconceptions:

a\) they understand the value held by `n` is now also held by `m` but do not understand the value of `n` has 
been updated since the initial assignment (e.g. treating it as a constant).
c\) they do not understand `n` and `m` are separate variables/containers for values (which can hold the same values) 
but rather assume that `m` is referencing variable `n` instead of copying its value at the time of assignment 
(e.g. behaving as a reference to another cell in a spreadsheet).
d\) they think that the reassignment for `n` actually subtracts `100` from the original value.

#### Copyright / Licencing MCQ

An example MCQ to check on people's misconceptions around licencing and reusing other people's work
could be designed as follows.

> _MCQ: Which of the following statements are true and which are false?_
>    
> a) I don’t need permission because I am only using the copyrighted work in educational or non-profit purposes  
> b) I should always know the licence of any code, data, libraries, pictures or other work that you reuse or redistribute  
> c) Since I’m planning to give credit to the authors who created the work I reuse, I do not have to worry about or need permission  
> d) Material I obtain from the Internet is publicly accessible so no explicit permission is required  
> e) I don’t need permission because I am only using a small portion of the copyrighted work
> f) The work I want to use does not have a copyright notice on it, so it’s not protected by copyright and I’m free to use it
> g) The work I want to use does not have a licence attached to it, so it’s not protected by copyright and I’m free to use it

Author: ```suggestion
_MCQ: Which of the following statements are true and which are false?_
   
a) I don’t need permission because I am only using the copyrighted work in educational or non-profit purposes  
b) I should always know the licence of any code, data, libraries, pictures or other work that you reuse or redistribute  
c) Since I’m planning to give credit to the authors who created the work I reuse, I do not have to worry about or need permission  
d) Material I obtain from the Internet is publicly accessible so no explicit permission is required  
e) The work I want to use does not have a copyright notice on it, so it’s not protected by copyright and I’m free to use it
```

Author: Addressing a comment by @tobyhodges about cutting down the number of options in the copyright/licence  MCQ

g) The work I want to use does not have a licence attached to it, so it’s not protected by copyright and I’m free to use it

The correct answers are as follows:

a) False - you always need an explicit permission from the creator to use their work.  
b) True - you should make sure that you have the permission for all the work that you are reusing, modifying or sharing.  
c) False - if you give credit to a work’s owner, that only means you are not plagiarising other 
people's work and claiming it as your own, however that does not mean that you have the permission to use it.  
d) False - publicly accessible work is not the same the work in the public domain. The owner 
explicitly must put their work in the public domain but attaching the appropriate licence to it, before you can freely reuse it. 
e) False - generally you should have a permission to use the portions of work, however small, but this is less clear in case of written material (e.g. borrowing 3 lines out of 1000s).
f) False - the use of copyright notice is optional as copyright exists implicitly from the moment the work is created.

> e) False - absence of a licence on how the work can be used generally means you have no permission from the creator to reuse it.

Author: Fixed via 9f8e964.
